---
layout: page
title: "Activity 5 - Parallel and Series Connections"
teaser: "Registering the official members of the Himalayan Makers Guild, and using parallel and series electrical connections to control an LED and a buzzer."
header: no
image: 
    title: /activity5/title.jpg
    thumb: /activity5/thumb.jpg
    caption: 
category:
    - nepal
gallery:
    - image_url: /activity5/0001.jpg
      caption: Tashi Lhamo helps explain the club membership expectations to a few of her classmates who arrived late. One expectation is that members arrive on time!
    - image_url: /activity5/0002.jpg
      caption: 
    - image_url: /activity5/0003.jpg
      caption: Dawa Sherpa courageously agreed to draw out the rock-slide analogy of electricity for us.
    - image_url: /activity5/0004.jpg
      caption: 
    - image_url: /activity5/0005.jpg
      caption: 
    - image_url: /activity5/0006.jpg
      caption: 
    - image_url: /activity5/0007.jpg
      caption: 
    - image_url: /activity5/0008.jpg
      caption: 
    - image_url: /activity5/0009.jpg
      caption: 
    - image_url: /activity5/0010.jpg
      caption: 
    - image_url: /activity5/0011.jpg
      caption: 
    - image_url: /activity5/0012.jpg
      caption: 
---

On Saturday we explored parallel and series electrical connections by using them to control the brightness of and LED and the volume of a buzzer. The students had come across these types of connections before, but we hadn't yet put a name to them. With everyone back from holidays we were able to register the students as members of the club, and give them their official Himalayan Makers Guild folders. We have 61 members in total, 25 boys and 36 girls (41%:59%)[^1]. 

I've met some great mentors here in the Kathmandu [Maker][] community. Hasin is one of those mentors. He works at an innovative education company called [Karkhana][]. This week, we put two of his suggestions into action. First, we did an exercise at the start of the class to highlight the importance of communicating the thought process taken to reach one's conclusions, rather than focusing arriving at the "correct" answer. We asked which one out of the three - crow, airplane, chicken - doesn't fit with the others. The students split into groups to discuss reach a conclusion. There are many suitable answers to the question, and this points the discussion towards the reasoning behind the students' answers. Second, we took 10 minutes at the end of the activity to reflect on what the students discovered. They were encouraged to share their observations and review the topics in their own words. This also helped us understand how well they'd understood the material.

Activity 5 has been made as a [Free Cultural Work][] and is available for use and adaption under the [CC BY-SA 4.0][] license. As per the constraints outlined in [Activity 1][], the activity does not require consistent access to electricity. The cost of one set of parts was $7.97 CAD, and 10 sets were shared across 60 students split into four sessions. This brought the parts-cost per student down to $1.33 CAD.

*	[**Activity 5 Lesson Plan**][lesson plan 5]
*	[**Activity 5 Student Handout**][handout 5]
  
{% include gallery %}

[^1]: [SMD][] has a nearly equal gender distribution among boarding students, with 175 boys and 174 girls.
[^2]: Part details and suppliers are given in the lesson plan.

[Maker]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maker_culture
[Karkhana]: http://www.karkhana.asia/
[SMD]: https://www.himalayanchildren.org/
[CC BY-SA 4.0]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/
[Free Cultural Work]: https://creativecommons.org/share-your-work/public-domain/freeworks/
[previous activities]: /blog
[lesson plan 5]: /files/Activity 5 - Lesson Plan.pdf
[handout 5]: /files/Activity 5 - Student Handout.pdf