---
layout: page
title: "Activity 6 - Open Building Session"
teaser: "Students work in teams to build a circuit from any of the parts they've seen so far."
header: no
image: 
    title: /activity6/title.jpg
    thumb: /activity6/thumb.jpg
    caption: 
category:
    - nepal
gallery:
    - image_url: /activity6/0001.jpg
      caption: 
    - image_url: /activity6/0002.jpg
      caption: 
    - image_url: /activity6/0003.jpg
      caption: 
    - image_url: /activity6/0004.jpg
      caption: 
    - image_url: /activity6/0005.jpg
      caption: 
    - image_url: /activity6/0006.jpg
      caption: 
    - image_url: /activity6/0007.jpg
      caption: 
    - image_url: /activity6/0008.jpg
      caption:       
---

## Open Building Session

In Activity 6, we tried something new. Tashi Choeden recommended that we give the students a chance to use all of the components they've seen so far and build any circuit they can imagine. It was a great idea! We explained the format and asked the students to form small groups. They had 5 minutes to discuss the circuit that they wanted to build. It could be as simple a rebuilding or modifying a circuit from a previous activity, or as complicated as they could imagine. They then told us the idea and we gave them the parts they requested to build it. In the 25 minute building time, they tried out their circuits and prepared the circuit diagrams for what they'd built.

In the Himalayan Makers Guild, we're starting to put more and more emphasis on group discussion and presentation. These are essential design and engineering skills. We asked each group to do a short presentation at the end of the class to highlight three points:

1.  Describe what is the circuit designed to do
2.  Draw the circuit diagram of what you've built
3.  Explain how the circuit works

## Evaluating Learning Outcomes

The open building session gave us a valuable opportunity to see how well the students are understanding the material covered so far in the activities. We used the circuit presentations as an insight how the students are doing with the learning objectives. It was a very coarse evaluation, since the students were free to choose what to build, and could refer to their previous handouts. We recorded when the students successfully used a skill (X) or if they tried to use a skill but didn't succeed (O).



Note: the Arduino-related skills were excluded, since we're still in the process of setting up the computers needed to use them.

There was a mix of understanding on the different topics. Some students tried to recreate circuits directly from the handouts with varying degrees of success; it is clear that some students still struggle with how to make electrical connections on the breadboard. This is a topic we'll review in more detail.

Three of the groups really excelled; they demonstrated a clear understanding of the circuit they built and how it works that went beyond what could be read from the student handouts. Many of the less comfortable students attempted to recreate circuits directly from previous activities with varying results.

* Tashi's idea: open building session
* Opportunity to evaluate learning outcomes so far by seeing how the students are able to build the circuits
* Focus on presentation skills, something totally new for the younger students in the club. Especially challenging for them in English.
* Low member outcome: we're going to have to have a discussion around commitment. They signed and understood the agreement. 2 strike + last change policy.

Activity 6 has been made as a [Free Cultural Work][] and is available for use and adaption under the [CC BY-SA 4.0][] license. As per the constraints outlined in [Activity 1][], the activity does not require consistent access to electricity.

*	[**Activity 6 Lesson Plan**][lesson plan 6]
*	[**Activity 6 Student Handout**][handout 6]

{% include gallery %}

[^1]: SMD has a nearly equal gender distribution among boarding students, with 175 boys and 174 girls.
[^2]: Part details and suppliers are given in the lesson plan.

[CC BY-SA 4.0]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/
[Free Cultural Work]: https://creativecommons.org/share-your-work/public-domain/freeworks/
[lesson plan 6]: /files/Activity 6 - Lesson Plan.pdf
[handout 6]: /files/Activity 6 - Student Handout.pdf